>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA WILL
ADDRESS THE NATION TONIGHT AND
OUTLINE HIS PLAN TO EXTEND THE
FIGHT AGAINST ISLAMIC MILITANTS
INTO SYRIA.
GOOD EVENING, I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
ALSO AHEAD THIS WEDNESDAY,
HUNDREDS OF CHILDREN ACROSS THE
COUNTRY HAVE FALLEN ILL WITH A
RARE, BUT POTENTIALLY SEVERE
RESPIRATORY ILLNESS.
WE EXPLORE WHAT'S BEHIND THE
MYSTERIOUS VIRUS AND ITS RAPID
SPREAD.
>> Ifill: PLUS, THE VIDEO GAME
MINECRAFT HAS ATTRACTED MILLIONS
OF ADDICTED PLAYERS.
NOW, MICROSOFT IS GETTING IN ON
THE GAME, LOOKING TO BUY THE
COMPANY BEHIND IT FOR $2
BILLION.
>> Woodruff: THOSE ARE JUST SOME
OF THE STORIES WE'RE COVERING ON
TONIGHT'S PBS NEWSHOUR.
>> Ifill: PRESIDENT OBAMA SPENT
THIS DAY TRYING TO BUILD SUPPORT
IN CONGRESS AND OVERSEAS IN THE
RUN UP TO HIS NATIONALLY
BROADCAST ADDRESS.
IT'S SCHEDULED FOR 9 P.M.
EASTERN TIME.
THE NEWSHOUR WILL PROVIDE LIVE
COVERAGE.
THE PRESIDENT IS NOW WIDELY
EXPECTED TO EXPAND THE MONTH OLD
AIR CAMPAIGN AGAINST ISLAMIC
STATE MILITANTS IN IRAQ AND
EXTEND IT INTO SYRIA.
HE'LL LAY OUT THE STRATEGY IN
HIS SPEECH TONIGHT.
>> MY FELLOW AMERICANS...
>> Ifill: IT COMES EXACTLY ONE
YEAR SINCE MR. OBAMA ADDRESSED
THE NATION ON A POSSIBLE
MILITARY RESPONSE TO SYRIA'S USE
OF CHEMICAL WEAPONS.
THEN, HE SOUGHT CONGRESSIONAL
AUTHORIZATION.
>> EVEN THOUGH I POSSESS THE
AUTHORITY TO ORDER MILITARY
STRIKES, I BELIEVED IT WAS
RIGHT, IN THE ABSENCE OF A
DIRECT OR IMMINENT THREAT TO OUR
SECURITY, TO TAKE THIS DEBATE TO
CONGRESS.
fi
PUBLIC PROVED SKEPTICAL, AND THE
PLAN WAS ULTIMATELY SHELVED WHEN
SYRIA AGREED TO HAND OVER ITS
CHEMICAL ARSENAL.
THIS TIME, THE PRESIDENT IS NOT
SEEKING FORMAL APPROVAL OF
MILITARY ACTION AGAINST THE
ISLAMIC STATE, ALSO KNOWN AS
ISIS OR ISIL.
INSTEAD, HE'S ASKING
CONGRESSIONAL LEADERS FOR OTHER
ACTION, INCLUDING FUNDS TO ARM
AND TRAIN MODERATE REBEL
FACTIONS IN SYRIA.
SENATE MAJORITY LEADER HARRY
REID BACKED THE PLAN.
AND IN BITING TERMS, HE CHARGED
REPUBLICANS ARE TAKING THEIR
CUES FROM THE WRONG MAN IN A
RUSH TO WAR.
>> FORMER VICE PRESIDENT CHENEY
WARE
REPUBLICANS A PEP TALK.
HE'S GOING TO-- HE GAVE THEM
ADVICE ON FOREIGN POLICY.
PLEASE, MR. PRESIDENT, PLEASE!
TAKING ADVICE FROM DICK CHENEY
ON FOREIGN POLICY?
THAT'S A TERRIFYING PROSPECT.
WE SHOULD BE LEARNING FROM OUR
PAST MISTAKES, NOT REPEATING
THEM
CHENEY ANSWERED WITH EQUALLY
TOUGH TALK, IN A SPEECH TODAY AT
THE AMERICAN ENTERPRISE
INSTITUTE IN WASHINGTON.
>> IN A FEW HOURS WE WILL HEAR
WHAT HE HAS IN MIND FOR THE
TERRORIST ONSLAUGHT CURRENTLY IN
IRAQ.
WE CAN HOPE FOR AND WE SHOULD
LOOK FOR SIGNS OF A FORCEFUL,
BOLD AND IMMEDIATE STRATEGY TO
DEFEAT ISIS.
WE CAN SAY ALREADY, HOWEVER,
THAT SUCH A PLAN WOULD MARK AN
ABRUPT AND DRAMATIC DEPARTURE
FROM HIS RECORD THUS FAR.
>> Ifill: BACK IN THE SENATE,
MINORITY LEADER MITCH MCCONNELL
TOOK UP THAT SAME THEME, SAYING
THE PRESIDENT HAS BEEN A RATHER
RELUCTANT COMMANDER IN CHIEF.
>> IT'S PRETTY CLEAR TO ME AT
LEAST THAT THE AMERICAN PEOPLE
FULLY APPRECIATE THE NATURE OF
THE THREAT.
AFTER THE BEHEADINGS OF TWO
AMERICAN CITIZENS, THEY DON'T
WANT AN EXPLANATION OF WHAT'S
HAPPENING.
THEY WANT A PLAN.
THEY WANT SOME PRESIDENTIAL
LEADERSHIP.
>> Ifill: AT THE WHITE HOUSE,
THE PRESIDENT SOUGHT SUPPORT
FROM LAWMAKERS, AND HE
TELEPHONED SAUDI ARABIA'S KING
ABDULLAH.
MEANWHILE, SECRETARY OF STATE
JOHN KERRY ARRIVED IN BAGHDAD TO
MEET WITH IRAQ'S NEW PRIME
MINISTER HAIDER AL-ABADI AND HIS
CABINET.
>> A NEW AND INCLUSIVE IRAQI
GOVERNMENT HAS TO BE THE ENGINE
OF OUR GLOBAL STRATEGY AGAINST
ISIL.
AND NOW THAT THE IRAQI
PARLIAMENT HAS APPROVED A NEW
CABINET WITH NEW LEADERS AND
REPRESENTATION FROM ALL IRAQI
COMMUNITIES, IT'S FULL SPEED
AHEAD.
>> Ifill: THE NEW IRAQI LEADER
ALSO APPEALED FOR INTERNATIONAL
AID AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE.
FRANCE RESPONDED BY SAYING IT
WILL JOIN IN EXPANDED AIR
STRIKES, IF NEEDED.
GERMANY SAID IT'S SENDING
WEAPONS AND ARMORED VEHICLES TO
KURDISH FORCES IN IRAQ.
>> Ifill: FRANCE RESPONDED BY
SAYING IT WILL JOIN IN EXPANDED
AIR STRIKES, IF NEEDED.
GERMANY SAID IT'S SENDING
WEAPONS AND ARMORED VEHICLES TO
KURDISH FORCES IN IRAQ.
THERE WAS ALSO WORD THE FIVE
PERMANENT MEMBERS OF THE U.N.
SECURITY COUNCIL, INCLUDING THE
U.S., BRITAIN, FRANCE, RUSSIA
AND CHINA WILL MEET MONDAY IN
PARIS, ON HOW TO STABILIZE IRAQ.
>> Woodruff: MEANWHILE, INSIDE
IRAQ TODAY, AT LEAST THIRTY
PEOPLE WERE KILLED IN A SERIES
OF ATTACKS TARGETING SECURITY
FORCES AND MARKETS IN BAGHDAD.
"WALL STREET JOURNAL" REPORTER
MATT BRADLEY IS ON THE GROUND
THERE, I SPOKE WITH HIM A SHORT
WHILE AGO.
MATT BRADLEY, WELCOME.
WE JUST REPORTED THAT SECRETARY
OF STATE KERRY HAS ARRIVED IN
BAGHDAD, MEETING WITH THE NEW
POLITICAL LEADERSHIP THERE.
WHAT HAVE YOU LEARNED ABOUT THE
VISIT?
>> WELL, SECRETARY KERRY MET
WITH SOME OF THE LEADING
MINISTERS HERE IN IRAQ.
WE HAVE TO REMEMBER THAT THESE
ARE MEN WHO ASSUME THEIR POST
JUST IN THE LAST TWO DAYS.
THEY WERE SWORN INTO OFFICE
MONDAY NIGHT.
MR. KERRY HAS BEEN TRYING TO
PROJECT AN IMAGE OF THIS NEW
GOVERNMENT AS AN INCLUSIVE
GOVERNMENT, ONE THAT HE CAN TAKE
BACK TO WASHINGTON AND SAY IS
GOING TO BE SUPPORTING ALL THE
U.S. INTERVENTION IN IRAQ WITH
THE SUPPORT OF THE ENTIRE
COUNTRY, OF SUNNI ARABS, SHIITE
ARABS AND THE KURDISH MINORITY
IN THE NORTH.
SO THESE MEETINGS NOW WERE FOR
JOHN KERRY TO TRY TO EXPLAIN
WHAT PRESIDENT OBAMA IS GOING TO
EXPLAIN TO THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
TONIGHT.
>> Woodruff: IS THERE A SENSE,
MATT, THAT THIS NEW GOVERNMENT
IS GOING TO BE MORE INCLUSIVE
AND HOW MUCH DIFFERENCE WILL
THAT MAKE?
>> IT'S NOT SO MUCH THIS
GOVERNMENT IS MORE INCLUSIVE,
AND EVEN THOUGH THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION KEEPS USING THE
WORD "INCLUSIVE" TO DESCRIBE
THIS GOVERNMENT, IN TERMS OF
NUMBERS AND IN TERMS OF THE
POSITIONS AND THE POWER
STRUCTURE, IT'S EXACTLY THE SAME
OR EVEN POSSIBLY LESS INCLUSIVE
THAN THE PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT
UNDER PREVIOUS PRIME MINISTER
NOURI AL-MALIKI.
BUT WHAT OBAMA ADMINISTRATION
OFFICIALS KEEP SAYING OVER AND
OVER AGAIN IS THAT PRIME
MINISTER MALIKI IS GONE, THAT
PRIME MINISTER MALIKI WAS THE
PROBLEM AND NOW THAT HE'S IN THE
VICE PRESIDENCY POSITION HE HAS
BEEN DECLAWED AND THIS NEW PRIME
MINISTER, EVEN THOUGH HE'S FROM
THE SAME STRONG SHIITE POLITICAL
PARTY, IS GOING TO BE BETTER.
THEY'RE SAYING  I  HE IS MUCH
BETTER.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DO YOU HEAR
FROM WHAT THE IRAQI LEADERS WANT
TO HEAR FROM PRESIDENT OBAMA
OBAMA AND IS THERE A DIFFERENCE
ON WHAT THE LEADERS ARE SAYING
ON THAT?
>> HERE IN IRAQ, A COUPLE OF
YEARS AGO THEY WERE TRYING TO
PUSH THE UNITED STATES OUT
BEFORE THEY LEFT IN
DECEMBER 2011, NOW IT'S ALMOST
UNANIMOUS THAT EVERYONE FROM
SUNNIS, KURDS, SHIITE, ALL WANT
TO SEE MORE U.S. INVOLVEMENT,
SOME JUST WANT THE U.S. TO STICK
TO AIR STRIKES BUT THEY WANT TO
SEE MORE.
ACROSS THE BOARD, THEY WANT TO
SEE MORE WEAPONS TO THE IRAQI
MILITARY, MORE AND BETTER
TRAINING FOR THE IRAQI MILITARY
BY THE AMERICANS.
THEY WANT TO SEE MORE AMERICAN
ADVISORS, OF WHICH THERE ARE
SEVERAL HUNDRED ON THE GROUND IN
BAGHDAD, AND SOME EVEN WANT TO
SEE BOOTS ON THE GROUND, THEY
WANT TO SEE U.S. FORCES
REEMERGING ON THE GROUND HERE IN
IRAQ TO FIGHT BACK AN ISLAMIST
INSURGENCY THAT THE IRAQ CAN CAN
MILITARY HAS SHOWN THEMSELVES
INCAPABLE OF CONFRONTING.
>> Woodruff: WE KNOW THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION RULED OUT BOOTS
ON THE GROUND BUT IT WILL BE
INTERESTING TO SEE HOW MUCH OF
THAT SQUARES WITH WHAT THE
PRESIDENT SAID.
MATT BRADLEY JOINING US FROM
BAGHDAD.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> Ifill: IN A FEW MINUTES,
WE'LL TURN TO THE DIPLOMATIC AND
POLITICAL IMPLICATIONS OF THE
PRESIDENT'S PLAN.
>> Woodruff: IN THE OTHER NEWS
OF THIS DAY, THE PRESIDENT OF
UKRAINE RAISED HOPES FOR THE
LONG-TERM SUCCESS OF A CEASE-
FIRE WITH PRO-RUSSIAN REBELS.
PETRO POROSHENKO TOLD HIS
CABINET THAT MAINTAINING THE
TRUCE HAS NOT BEEN EASY.
BUT HE SAID THE MAJORITY OF
RUSSIAN FORCES HAVE GONE HOME
SINCE THE DEAL TOOK EFFECT ON
>> ( translated ): 70% OF
RUSSIAN TROOPS HAVE BEEN
WITHDRAWN FROM UKRAINE.
IT CREATES THE GROUNDS FOR THE
PROSPECT OF A PEACE INITIATIVE.
TODAY, FUTURE DEVELOPMENTS
DEPEND ON OUR JOINT, EFFICIENT
AND COORDINATED WORK TOWARDS THE
UNITY OF THE WHOLE COUNTRY.
>> Woodruff: RUSSIA HAS DENIED
IT EVER SENT ANY MILITARY FORCES
INTO UKRAINE.
IN ANOTHER DEVELOPMENT, THE
RUSSIAN NAVY TEST-LAUNCHED A
NEW, INTERCONTINENTAL BALLISTIC
MISSILE.
IT'S CAPABLE OF HOLDING UP TO
TEN NUCLEAR WARHEADS.
IN MOSCOW, PRESIDENT VLADIMIR
PUTIN SPOKE TO A KREMLIN
GATHERING, AND SAID THE TEST IS
A RESPONSE TO NATO EXPANSION IN
EASTERN EUROPE.
>> ( translated ): WE HAVE SAID
MANY TIMES THAT WE WILL HAVE TO
TAKE CORRESPONDING
COUNTERMEASURES TO ENSURE OUR
SECURITY.
SO WE VERY MUCH WOULD LIKE TO
AVOID HEARING HYSTERICS LATER
WHEN FINAL DECISIONS ARE MADE
AND START TO BE IMPLEMENTED.
>> Woodruff: DEVELOPMENT OF THE
MISSILE HAS BEEN DELAYED BY A
NUMBER OF FAILED TESTS.
>> Ifill: MONSOON FLOODING
ACROSS PAKISTAN AND INDIA CAUSED
A MAJOR RIVER TO OVERFLOW TODAY,
THREATENING THOUSANDS MORE
PEOPLE.
FROM THE DISPUTED KASHMIR REGION
IN THE NORTHERN HIMALAYAS ARE
NOW MOVING DOWNSTREAM,
SUBMERGING MORE TOWNS IN THE
SURROUNDING PLAINS.
THE CITY OF SRINAGAR, ON THE
INDIAN SIDE OF KASHMIR, IS
ALREADY LARGELY UNDER WATER.
THE FLOODS HAVE KILLED MORE THAN
450 PEOPLE.
>> Woodruff: TOP OFFICIALS IN
AND OUT OF BRITAIN'S GOVERNMENT
SPENT THIS DAY APPEALING TO
SCOTTISH VOTERS TO STAY IN THE
UNITED KINGDOM.
POLLS NOW SUGGEST THE YES VOTE,
FOR INDEPENDENCE, MAY CARRY THE
DAY IN NEXT WEEK'S REFERENDUM.
GARY GIBBON, OF INDEPENDENT
TELEVISION NEWS, REPORTS.
>> MONDAY FELLOW PARTY LEADERS,
NEEDED TO ABANDONED EVERYTHING
AND GET TO SCOTLAND TODAY.
THEY ALSO AGREED ON THE MESSAGE,
ODON'T BREAK UP THE U.K. FAMILY.
EVERYONE WILL BE HEART BROKEN IF
THIS FAMILY OF NATIONS WAS TORN
APART.
AND THESE TIES OF FAMILY, THESE
TIES OF FRIENDSHIP ARE NOT JUST
TIES FOR ME BUT FOR PEOPLE RIGHT
ACROSS THE UNITED KINGDOM.
>> THEY'RE A REALLY IMPORTANT
ISSUE AT STAKE.
IT'S THE FUTURE OF THE FAMILY OF
NATIONS THAT MAKES UP THE UNITED
KINGDOM.
>> PANICKED PRODUCTS OF ANOTHER
COUNTRY.
>> THEY'RE CONCERNED THAT THIS
LAST DITCH EFFORT SEEMS TO BE
FOR THEIR OWN JOBS, THAT IS THE
CONTRAST BETWEEN TEAM SCOTLAND
AND THE NARROW FOCUS OF TEAM
WESTMINSTER.
(ARGUING)
>> ON THE EDGE, ONE OF THE
STREET CORNER ARGUMENTS ACROSS
SCOTLAND.
>> YOU'RE TELLING ME TO LEAVE MY
COUNTRY!
>> DAVID CAMERON SAID SCOTS
MUSTN'T TREAT THE REFERENDUM
LIGHTLY.
>> I THINK PEOPLE FEEL IT'S A
BIT LIKE A GENERAL ELECTION THAT
YOU MAKE A DECISION AND FIVE
YEARS LATER YOU CAN MAKE A
DIFFERENT DECISION IF YOU'RE FED
UP.
THIS IS TOTALLY DIFFERENT THAN
GENERAL ELECTIONS.
>> A LOT OF REMINDERS OF THE
U.K. FAMILY THAT HE'D LIKE TO
POINT OUT AROUND SCOTLAND SIMPLY
DISAPPEARED.
THIS IS THE HOME OF STILLMILL
FROM 22 YEARS AGO.
THIS USED TO BE THE BRITISH
SHIPBUILDING, ALL OVER THE
SCOTLAND, BRITISH COAL.
AND ALSO THE AREAS OF
DEPRIVATION LEFT BEHIND THAT THE
YES SUPPORT IS SURGING MOST.
>> THE REFERENDUM IS NEXT
THURSDAY, SEPTEMBER 18.
>> Ifill: A NEW INJECTION OF
PRIVATE FUNDING WILL TARGET THE
EBOLA OUTBREAK IN WEST AFRICA.
THE BILL AND MELINDA GATES
FOUNDATION ANNOUNCED TODAY IT
WILL SPEND $50 MILLION DOLLARS
ON THE EFFORT.
THAT'S IN ADDITION TO $10
MILLION ALREADY COMMITTED.
THE NEW MONEY WILL GO TO THE
UNITED NATIONS AND OTHER
INTERNATIONAL GROUPS, TO BUY
SUPPLIES AND DEVELOP VACCINES
AND THERAPIES.
>> Woodruff: FOR THE FIRST TIME
IN 35 YEARS THE EARTH'S OZONE
LAYER IS SHOWING SIGNS OF
THICKENING.
THAT'S ACCORDING TO FINDINGS
RELEASED TODAY BY A SCIENTIFIC
PANEL AT THE UNITED NATIONS.
THE OZONE LAYER PROVIDES A
SHIELD AGAINST THE SUN'S CANCER
CAUSING ULTRAVIOLET RAYS, BUT IT
HAD BEEN THINNING SINCE THE
1970'S.
THE REPORT SAYS A 1980'S BAN ON
HARMFUL CHEMICALS IN
REFRIGERANTS AND AEROSOL SPRAYS
HAS TURNED THINGS AROUND.
>> Ifill: ON WALL STREET TODAY,
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
GAINED NEARLY 55 POINTS TO CLOSE
AT 17,068; THE NASDAQ ROSE 34
POINTS TO CLOSE AT 4,586; AND
THE S&P 500 ADDED SEVEN, TO
FINISH AT 1,995.
STILL TO COME ON THE NEWSHOUR.
A PREVIEW OF THE PRESIDENT'S
ADDRESS TO THE NATION.
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW ABOUT THE
RARE RESPIRATORY VIRUS AFFECTING
CHILDREN ACROSS THE COUNTRY.
USING SCIENCE AND SPIRITUALITY
TO TREAT MENTAL ILLNESS IN
INDIA.
WHY VIDEO GAMES LIKE MINECRAFT
ARE BIG BUSINESS.
FRIEND, THE JOURNALIST JAMES
FOLEY.
>> Woodruff: WE LOOK AHEAD NOW
TO THE PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS TO
THE NATION ON HIS PLAN TO
DISMANTLE THE ISLAMIC STATE
GROUP.
WE'RINN CHIEF
FOREIGN AFFAIRS CORRESPONDENT
MARGARET WARNER AND POLITICAL
EDITOR DOMENICO MONTANARO.
SO, MARGARET, TO YOU FIRST.
YOU HAVE BEEN TALKING TO FOREIGN
POLICY EXPERTS AND OTHERS.
WHAT DO THEY EXPECT THE
PRESIDENT TO SAY.
>> INCLUDING OFFICIALS TO THE
GOVERNMENT.
I THINK IT'S GOING TO BE A BROAD
OFFENSIVE HE'S GOING TO ANNOUNCE
AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE
GROUP -- DIPLOMATIC, MILITARY,
ECONOMIC, ON EVERY FRONT, WITH
THE COALITION THAT THEY'RE
TRYING TO PUT TOGETHER NOW.
AND HE SAID THIS BEFORE, TO
DEGRADE AND ULTIMATELY DESTROY
OR CERTAINLY DESTROY I.S.I.L.'S
OFFENSIVE CAPABILITIES, SO
THAT'S THE PLAN, AND THE
ELEMENTS ARE GOING TO INCLUDE,
AS WE KNOW, EXPANDED USE OF
AMERICAN AIR POWER, FIRST OF ALL
EXPANDING THE AREA INSIDE IRAQ,
NOT JUST TO THESE CONFINED
GROUPS, TO CONFINED AREAS, AND
SECONDLY INTO SYRIA, WHICH IS A
GOVERNMENT THAT IS NOT GIVING
PERMISSION.
SO IT'S A GREAT BIG STEP FOR
THEM.
AND SECONDLY, IT WILL BE TO TRY
TO GET MEMBERS OF THIS COALITION
TO STEP UP TO HELPING TO EXPAND
THE ARMING AND EQUIPPING OF NOT
ONLY THE IRAQI MILITARY BUT THE
SYRIAN MODERATE OPPOSITION.
ESSENTIALLY, THEY'LL ADD AN
OVERT ELEMENT TO WHAT'S BEEN
ESSENTIALLY A COVERT PAM
DO THIS.
THIS WILL BE MUCH MORE OVERT
THAN JORDAN AND TURKEY.
>> Ifill: FIRST REACTION ON
CAPITOL HILL IS, NO, I DON'T
THINK WE'LL GIVE YOU WHAT YOU'RE
ASKING FOR, DEMOCRATS,
REPUBLICANS.
BUT IN THERE SEEMS LIKE A SLIGHT
SHIFT THIS AFTERNOON.
>> OBVIOUY, WE'VE SEEN
REPUBLICANS TRY TO SUPPORT THE
POLICY BUT BE CRITICAL OF THE
PRESIDENT SAYING HE'S TAKING TOO
LONG.
WHEN YOU LOOK YESTERDAY AT JOHN
BOEHNER'S PRESS CONFERENCE, HE
SAID "STRATEGY" 13 TIMES IN
THREE MINUTES BECAUSE HE WAS
TRYING TO PLAY OFF OF PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S LAST WEEK SAYING WELL,
WE DON'T HAVE A STRATEGY YET.
WELL NOW THE PRESIDENT IS TRYING
TO GET THE STRATEGY AND ONE OF
MARGARET'S POINTS ABOUT WHAT
PRESIDENT OBAMA IS TRYING TO DO,
ONE OF THOSE THINGS IS PERHAPS
ARM SYRIAN REBELS WITHIN SYRIA
WHO COULD THEN FIGHT THE ISLAMIC
STATE GROUP THERE, AND WHAT WE
COULD TELL FROM THAT BEHIND THE
SCENES IS THAT REPUBLICANS ARE
CONTINUING A GOVERNMENT FUNDING
MEASURE SHORT TERM.
BECAUSE THE WHITE HOUSE HAS BEEN
LOBBYING THEM TO DO SO, BECAUSE
THEY'RE ANTICIPATING THAT THE
PRESIDENT IS GOING TO ASK FOR
SOME FUNDING FOR THE SYRIAN
REBELS.
>> Ifill: THEY'RE NOW SAYING
THEY MET THE PRESIDENT MAKE
HIS CASE, AT LEAST.
>> YEAH, HE'S GOING TO MAKE HIS
CASE AND THEY'LL MEET TOMORROW
9:00 A.M. TO SEE IF THEY WILL
PUT IT IN ANOTHER CONTINUING
RESOLUTION OR LOOK AT IT
SEPARATELY.
>> Woodruff: MARGARET, AS WE
WATCH, WE WORK UP TO A BIG
MOMENT TONIGHT.
A YEAR AGO WAS A BIG MOMENT ON
SYRIA.
OUR ALLIES FROM ABROAD MUST BE
WATCHING VERY CAREFULLY.
THEY MUST BE DECIDING WHETHER
THEY'RE GOING TO SUPPORT IT.
ARE THEY BEHIND US?
>> THE ADMINISTRATION HAS LINED
UP CLOSE TO 40 COUNTRIES VERY
QUICKLY THAT SAY THEY'RE PART OF
THIS COALS, BUT I AM HEARING
GREAT CONCERN, ESPECIALLY FROM
REGIONAL PLAYERS ABOUT WHAT THEY
ARE ASKED TO DO.
ARE THEY WILLING TO MAKE THE
PAINFUL CHOICES AND IF THE
FAMOUSLY NON-INTERVENTIONIST
PRESIDENT READY TO MAKE A
COMMITMENT?
THEY HEARD WHAT HE SAID TWO
YEARS AGO IN SYRIA ABOUT BOMBING
OVER CHEMICAL WEAPONS ONLY TO
SEE HIM PULL BACK.
EVEN EUROPEAN COUNTRIES, BRITAIN
FRANCE, INDICATED AN INTEREST.
SO ARAB GOVERNMENTS WILL BE AT
THE MEETING TOMORROW WHERE KERRY
WILL MAKE THE CASE.
HE SAID, WELL, YOU KNOW, WE'RE
COMMITTED BUT WE HAVEN'T HEARD
ANY DETAILS AND WE'RE WAITING TO
HEAR WHAT HE HAS TO SAY.
AND THERE ARE PAINFUL CHOICES.
FOR EXAMPLE, IS SAUDI ARABIA
REALLY READY TO CUT OFF THE
FUNDING THAT'S GOING TO SUPPORT
THE SAME EXTREMIST GROUPS IN
SYRIA?
YOU KNOW, WILL THE TURKS STOP
THE FLOW OF FOREIGN FIGHTERS
WHICH THEY'VE ALLOWED TO COME LO
THE BORDERS INTO SYRIA AND IRAQ?
SO THERE ARE PAINFUL CHOICES
THAT THEY'RE NERVOUS ABOUT
MAKING IF THEY THINK THAT THE
PRESIDENT ISN'T REALLY COMMITTED
TO A LODGE-TERM ENGAGEMENT HERE.
>> Ifill: DOES THE STRATEGY
WORK WITHOUT THAT SUPPORT?
>> I DON'T THINK SO, JUDY, AND I
DON'T THINK THE WHITE HOUSE
THINKS SO.
THE PRESIDENT DOESN'T WANT TO
LOOK LIKE HE'S GEORGE W. BUSH
PRETTY MUCH GOING IT ALONE, SAY,
IN IRAQ.
AND, SO, THEY ARE VERY, AS YOU
CAN SEE, HOW HARD SECRETARY
KERRY AND THE PRESIDENT'S BEEN
WORKING THE PHONES TO HAVE THIS
LOOK LIKE A MULTI-NATIONAL, YOU
KNOW, COALITION OF THE WILLING.
AND THAT'S GOING BACK TO OLD
PLAY BOOKS.
>> Woodruff: SO, D DO DOMENICO
MONTANARO, WHAT DO THEY THINK OF
PRESIDENT'S FOREIGN POLICY?
IT'S AT AN ALL-TIME LOW BUT IT'S
NOW IN AN INCREASE.
>> THE NBC POLL FOUND PRESIDENT
OBAMA'S FOREIGN POLICY HANDLING,
32%, ALL-TIME LOW, JOB APPROVAL
AT 40%, ALSO AN ALL-TIME LOW.
WHAT THAT SAYS IS THIS PRESIDENT
IS REALLY FACING A VERY
CRITICAL, FINE LINE THAT HE HAS
TO WALK TONIGHT IN THE CHALLENGE
THAT HE'S FACING BECAUSE HE
NEEDS TO MAKE THE CASE TO KIND
OF A WAR-WEARY PUBLIC WHETHER OR
NOT WE SHOULD CONTINUE TO
BASICALLY RAMP UP IN SYRIA AND
IN IRAQ WHEN THEY HAVE, IN THE
PAST, BEEN RETICENT TO DO SO.
61% OF AMERICANS ARE NOW SAYING
THEY AGREE THAT IT'S IN THE U.S.
INTEREST TO GO AND FIGHT THE
ISLAMIC STATE GROUP.
THAT'S UP FROM JUST LAST YEAR.
MARGARET'S MENTIONING SYRIA,
GOING IN TO HIT SYRIA 21% LAST
YEAR, WHEN WE LOOK AT AMERICAN
ATTITUDES ON MILITARY FORCE
AGAINST THE ISLAMIC STATE,
THERE'S MORE LIMITED SUPPORT,
HOWEVER, BECAUSE IT'S NOT AN
ALL-IN THING.
40% SUPPORT AIR STRIKES, 34%
SUPPORT AIRSTRIKES AND GROUND
TROOPS.
NOW, WHAT THAT TELLS YOU IS
THREE-QUARTERS OF THE COUNTRY
SUPPORT SOME ACTION BUT LIMITED
TO THOSE AIRSTRIKES, YES, BUT
GROUND TROOPS IS A DIFFERENT
BALL GAME.
>> Woodruff: FAIR TO SAY THE
PRESIDENT IS WORKING ON TWO
DIFFERENT AUDIENCES TONIGHT, THE
AMERICAN PUBLIC OPINION AS WELL
AS THE FOREIGNLE ALLIES AND
ENEMIES ABROAD.
>> RIGHT.
AND IT LIMITS, REALLY, WHAT THE
PRESIDENT'S POLICY CAN BE GOING
FORWARD.
IF 85% OF THE COUNTRY SAID THEY
WERE IN FAVOR OF GROUND TROOPS,
YOU MIGHT SEE A SLIGHTLY
DIFFERENT POLICY THAT COULD BE
PUT FORWARD.
>> I'M HEARING FROM FOREIGN
DIPLOMATS THERE'S CONCERN IS THE
PRESIDENT REALLY COMMITTED FOR
STRATEGIC REASONS OR IS IT TO
ANSWER SOME OF THE CONCERNS ON
THE PART OF THE AMERICAN PUBLIC
AFTER THEBY BEHEADING OF THE TWO
AMERICAN JOURNALISTS?
>> THAT'S WHAT'S CHANGED PUBLIC
OPINION.
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
UNE IN 9:00 EASTERN FOR A
"NewsHour" SPECIAL REPORT.
WE'LL HAVE LIVE COVERAGE OF THE
PRESIDENT'S ADDRESS TO THE
NATION.
PLUS ANALYSIS FROM MARK SHIELDS
AND DAVID BROOKS.
AND IF YOU'RE AWAY FROM THE
TELEVISION, WE'LL BE LIVE
STREAMING ALL OUR COVERAGE ON
OUR WEB SITE.
YOU CAN WATCH US ON YOUR
COMPUTER OR YOUR MOBILE DEVICE.
>> Ifill: HUNDREDS OF CHILDREN
ACROSS THE COUNTRY HAVE BEEN
HOSPITALIZED BY A VIRUS THAT HAS
COME ON SUDDENLY AND STRONGLY.
JEFFREY BROWN GETS THE LATEST ON
WHAT YOU NEED TO KNOW.
>> Brown: IT'S CALLED VIRUS
68, LEDO A SURGE OF EMERGENCY
ROOM VISITS.
IN MANY WAYS, STARTS OFF LIKE A
REGULAR COLD, BUT SOME SOON HAVE
WHEEZING AND BREATHING
DIFFICULTIES.
CONFIRMED IN COLORADO, ILLINOIS,
IOWA, MISSOURI, KANSAS, KENTUCKY
AND AT LEAST SIX OTHERS ARE
REPORTING CASES.
WE TALKED WITH TWO PEOPLE
DEALING WITH IT DIRECTLY.
DR. ANN SHO AND DR. CONNERS.
WHAT CAUSED YOU TO REACH OUT TO
THE C C.D.C.?
>> A COUPLE OF WEEKS AGO, WE
WERE SEEING QUITE A BIT MORE
THAN EXPECT ADD NUMBER OF
CHILDREN PRESENTING THE TO
EMERGENCY DEPARTMENTS AND URGENT
CARE CENTERS WITH COMPLAINTS OF
WHEEZING, COUGHING, RESPIRATORY
SYMPTOMS.
SO THIS GOT TO THE INFECTIOUS
DISEASE FOLKS WHO SAYS THIS
LOOKS LIKE AN UNUSUAL VIRAL
OUTBREAK, LET'S GET IN CONTACT
WITH THE C.D.C. AND TESTING
BEGAN AND WE REALIZED IT WAS
THIS ANTERO VIRUS YOU DESCRIBED.
>> Reporter: HOW BIG A DEAL
HAS IT BECOME?
>> OVER FIVE OR SIX
KIDS A DAY.
>> Brown: DR. SCHUCHAT, WHAT
DO WE KNOW ABOUT THE VIRUS AND
WHY IT'S SPREADING NOW?
>> THE VIRUSES ARE COMMON,
10 MILLION TO 15 MILLION
INFECTION EACH YEAR BUT ANTERO
VIRUS 68 IS UNUSUAL.
IT'S BEEN KNOWN OF SINCE 1952,
BUT WE HAVEN'T SEEN MANY OF THE
INFECTIONS IN THE U.S.
WHAT WE'RE SEEING THIS YEAR IN A
COUPLE OF PLACES IS AN INCREASE
OVER EXPECTED OF SEVERE
RESPIRATORY ILLNESS IN CHILDREN,
WORSENING OF ASTHMA IN
PARTICULAR.
WE THINK THE VIRUS IS SPREAD
PERSON TO PERSON THROUGH COUGHS
AND SNEEZES AND THAT IT'S REALLY
IMPORTANT FOR PEOPLE TO WASH
HANDS, COVER COUGHS, KEEP KIDS
HOME IF THEY'RE SICK, THOSE ARE
THE THINGS WE CALL RESPIRATORY
HYGIENE OR GOOD ETIQUETTE TO
REDUCE THE SPREAD OF RESPIRATORY
VIRUS FROM ONE PERSON TO
ANOTHER.
>> DO WE KNOW WHY IT SUDDENLY
FLAIRS UP?
IT'S BEEN AROUND SINCE THE
'60s BUT AT LOW LEVELS, I
GUESS.
>> WE WISH WE KNEW MORE ABOUT
THE VIRUS.
IT'S RELATIVELY NEW.
WE KNOW THE STRAINS ARE SIMILAR
TO LAST YEAR'S AND BEFORE SO IT
HASN'T CHANGED BUT WE'RE SEEING
INCREASES IN PARTICULAR
COMMUNITIES.
C.D.C. IS WORKING CLOSELY WITH
STATES AND LOCAL HEALTH
DEPARTMENTS AROUND THE COUNTRY
TO UNDERSTAND WHETHER THE
INCREASES ARE CLUSTERS OF
RESPIRATORY ILLNESS ARE CAUSED
BY THIS.
THERE ARE MANY OTHER CAUSES OF
RESPIRATORY ILLNESS AND SOME OF
THE CLUSTERS WE'VE LOOKED INTO,
THIS HASN'T BEEN PRESENT, SO
IT'S EARLY DAYS AND WE'LL KNOW A
LOT MORE THE NEXT TIME.
>> AND, JUDY, DO WE KNOW WHY IT
SEEMS TO HIT CHILDREN WITH
RESPIRATORY PROBLEMS ALREADY?
IS THAT CORRECT?
>> RIGHT, ANTERO VIRUSES IN
GENERAL CAUSE MORE SYMPTOMS IN
YOUNG PEOPLE THAN ADULTS.
ADULTS CAN GET MILDER,
ASYMPTOMATIC INFECTIONS WITH THE
VIRUSES BUT ANTERO VIRUS 68
SEEMS TO WORSEN ASTHMA.
SO MANY OF THE CASES WE'VE SEEN
ARE IN CHILDREN WITH ASTHMA WHO
HAVE A WORSE TIME RECOVERING
FROM THE VIRUS.
WE THINK IT'S IMPORTANT FOR
PARENTS WHO HAVE CHILDREN WITH
ASTHMA TO MAKE SURE THE KIDS ARE
TAKING THEIR MEDICINES
REGULARLY.
FLU SEASON ARE COMING AND THE
VACCINE IS AN IMPORTANT
PROTECTION FOR CHILDREN AND
OTHERS WITH ASTHMA.
THEY JUST DON'T HANDLE VIRAL
INFECTIONS AS WELL AS OTHERS DO.
>> Brown: DR. CONNERS, WHAT
HAS HAPPENED IN THE CASES YOU'VE
SEEN?
WHEN HAVE CHILDREN COME IN AND
WHAT HA HAS BEEN THE PROGRESSIOS
THEY'VE COME?
>> WE'VE SEEN QUITE A FEW, MANY
OF THEM HAVE ASTHMA, MANY
HAVEN'T HAD ASTHMA IN THE PAST
YET LOOK LIKE THEY DO HAVE
ASTHMA.
ABOUT ONE IN SIX OF THE CHILDREN
ARE TAKEN TO THE HOSPITAL, SOME
EVEN TO INTENSIVE CARE, AND THE
REST THEY TREAT WITH ENOUGH
MEDICATION IN THE EMERGENCY
DEPARTMENT AND THEN SEND THEM
HOME TO CONTINUE THEIR
MANAGEMENT.
BUT SOME KIDS ESPECIALLY ONES
WITH UNDERLYING HEALTH PROBLEMS
INCLUDING ASTHMA, SOME HAVE
ENDED UP IN INTENSIVE CARE.
>> Brown: WHAT KIND OF
TREATMENT IS IT?
>> STANDARD ASTHMA STUFF,
INHALED MEDICINES AND USUAL ORAL
STEROIDS.
THAT WILL GET THROUGH MOST OF
THE KIDS THAT HAVE AN
ASTHMA-LIKE PICTURE.
THE ONES THAT COME INTO THE
HOSPITAL, WE HAVE TO USE THOSE
MORE INTENSIVELY THAN THOSE AT
HOME AND THEN THE ONES IN
INTENSIVE CARE, EXTRA OXYGEN AND
INTERVENES MEDICATIONS AS WELL.
>> Brown: WHAT WOULD YOU TELL
PARENTS AND WHEN TO BRING THE
CHILD IN TO THE DOCTOR OR TO AN
EMERGENCY ROOM IF NECESSARY?
>> SURE, A GREAT QUESTION.
WE TELL PARENTS TO BRING KIDS IN
IF THEY'RE HAVING TROUBLE
BREATHING OR SYMPTOMS THAT NEED
EMERGENCY OR URGENT CARE VISIT.
WE'VE HAD SEVERAL FAMILIES WHO
HAVE COME IN SINCE THEY'VE
LEARNED ABOUT IT ON THE NEWS
WITH CONCERNS THIS MIGHT BE THE
VIRUS AND THE CHILDREN ACTUALLY
WEREN'T THAT SICK, LOOKING FOR
SPECIFIC TESTING AND THAT SORT
OF THING.
WE TELL PARENTS, NO NEED FOR
THAT.
I YOUR CHILD NEEDS HELP
BECAUSE THEY'RE SICK TO THE
LEVEL OF NEEDING EMERGENCY OR
URGENT CARE.
BUT IF YOU'RE LOOKING FOR
SPECIFIC TESTING OR JUST
EXAMINING THE CHILD, NO NEED FOR
SPECIFIC TESTING AND THERE IS NO
SPECIFIC THERAPY EVEN P THE
TESTS WERE POSITIVE.
SO JUST TAKE CARE OF THE CHILD
AS YOU USUALLY WOULD AND
CONSIDER THE ENERGY DEPARTMENT
AND URGENT CARE TO BE A BACKUP
IF YOUR CHILD IS HAVING TROUBLE
BREATHING OR OTHER IMPORTANT
HEALTHCARE PROBLEM LIKE THAT.
>> Brown: DOES HISTORY TELL US
ANYTHING ABOUT HOW LONG
SOMETHING LIKE THIS MIGHT LAST
OR HOW BIG IT MIGHT GROW?
>> WE'RE REVIEWING THE
INFORMATION THAT'S AVAILABLE
FROM OUTBREAKS AROUND THE WORLD.
USUALLY THIS IS THE RIGHT TIME
OF THE YEAR, AUGUST AND
SEPTEMBER ARE WHEN ANTERO
VIRUSES PEAK.
BUT WE DON'T KNOW HOW LONG THIS
WILL LAST IN THE DIFFERENT
COMMUNITIES OR HOW WIDESPREAD IT
WILL BE.
WE THINK, IN THE WEEKS AHEAD, IT
WILL BE IMPORTANT TO BE LOOKING
FOR OTHER VIRUSES AS WELL
BECAUSE WE'LL HEAD INTO THE
SEASON WHEN DIFFERENT VIRUSES
CIRCULATE.
SO IT'S NOT LIKELY TO GO ON FOR
MONTHS.
THIS IS THE RIGHT TIME OF YEAR
FOR THIS KIND OF RESPIRATORY
PROBLEM.
>> ALL RIGHT, DR. SCHUCHAT AND
CONNERS, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: NEXT, BRIDGING THE
GAP BETWEEN SCIENCE AND
SPIRITUALITY TO TREAT MENTAL
ILLNESS IN INDIA.
FRED DE SAM LAZARO HAS THIS
REPORT, PART OF OUR AGENTS FOR
CHANGE SERIES.
IT ALSO AIRED ON THE PBS PROGRAM
"RELIGION AND ETHICS
NEWSWEEKLY."
THIS ISLAMIC FIGURE REVERED
IN WESTERN INDIA, MARTYRED 500
YEARS AGO, HAS LONG BEEN A
PILGRIMAGE DESTINATION.
THOUSANDS OF FAITHFUL, NOT JUST
MUSLIMS, BUT HINDU, CHRISTIANS
AND OTHERS FROM ACROSS INDIA
COME TO PRAY FOR A BLESSING OR A
MIRACLE.
COUPLES UNABLE TO CONCEIVE,
PEOPLE SUFFERING FROM VARIOUS
MALADIES.
IT IS ALSO THE CLOSEST THING FOR
MANY INDIANS TO A MENTAL HEALTH
FACILITY.
(WAILING)
>> IT IS A TABOO SUBJECT, THE
STIGMA ESPECIALLY HARD ON
FAMILIES WITH PEOPLE WITH MENTAL
ILLNESS, SEEN AS A KARMA FOR
MISDEEDS OF THE PAST LIFE.
THIS IS A TRUSTEE OF THE SHRINE.
>> THE PEOPLE WHO COME WITH
MENTAL ILLNESS, HAVE TRIED
EVERYTHING ELSE AND NOT GOTTEN
ANY RELIEF.
FINALLY, THIS IS THE PLACE THEY
COME TO.
THEY COME HERE TO PRAY.
>> DOZENS OF FAITH HEALERS
RECITE PRAYERS WHILE PATIENTS
RECITE RITUALS, BREATHING IN
INNOCENCE, WALKING AROUND THE
DOME SEVEN TIMES.
>> THE NUMBERS IN INDIA ARE
SIMPLY STAGGERING, THOUGHT TO BE
ABOUT 100 MILLION PEOPLE IN THIS
COUNTRY WITH COMMON MENTAL
DISORDERS AND UP TO 20 MILLION
WITH SEVERE MENTAL ILLNESSES
SUCH AS SCHIZOPHRENIA.
FOR ALL OF THEM, THERE ARE ABOUT
5,000 PSYCHIATRISTS IN THIS
COUNTRY.
>> SO FAITH HEALERS FROM ACROSS
INDIA'S DIVERSE RELIGIOUS MOSAIC
HAVE LONG FILLED THE GAP SAYS A
WELL-KNOWN MENTAL HEALTH
ADVOCATE.
>> LACK OF PROFESSIONALS, LACK
OF MEDICATIONS, LACK OF
AWARENESS, LACK OF KNOWLEDGE.
SO ALL OF THIS LEADS TO ONLY ONE
THING, THAT IT'S THE MOST NEED
OF HELP.
>> COMES FROM AN EDUCATED MIDDLE
CLASS BACKGROUND BECAME AN
ADVOCATE AFTER HIS BROTHER CAME
DOWN WITH SCHIZOPHRENIA SEVERAL
YEARS AGO.
HE DISCOVERED THERE ARE SOME
RESOURCES PROVIDED BY REGIONAL
GOVERNMENT HOSPITALS BUT THEY
AREN'T WELL KNOWN OR UTILIZED IN
A HISTORICALLY INEFFICIENT
SYSTEM.
SO UNLIKE MENTAL HEALTH
OFFICIALS LED BY THE DOCTOR TO
THE SHRINE.
>> WHEN I CAME HERE, THERE WERE
40 TO 50 FAITH HEALERS STANDING
IN THE DOOR TO KEEP US FROM
ENTERING.
THEY THOUGHT DOCTORS WERE COMING
TO PUT THEM OUT OF BUSINESS.
IT WAS A VERY SENSITIVE TIME
ESPECIALLY SINCE THIS IS THE
MUSLIM HOLY PLACE AND SEVERAL
THOUSAND JOBS ARE AT STAKE.
>> EVENTUALLY, PERHAPS WITH THE
THREAT OF LEGAL ACTION, THEY
WERE ABLE TO ENTER, BUT THE
DOCTOR SAID THEY REASSURED THE
SHRINE'S LEADERS THEY HAD NO
INTENT OF SHUTTING IT
HE SAYS, OVER, CONDITIONS WERE
APPALLING.
>> 30 TO 40 PEOPLE WERE CHAINED
TO A POST, OFTEN BECAUSE THEY'D
HAD VIOLENT EPISODES.
SOME WERE ABANDONED BY THEIR
FAMILIES.
CONDITIONS ARE VERY UNHYGIENIC
AND COMPLETELY INHUMANE.
>> THINGS IMPROVED MARKEDLY AND
THE SUPREME COURT OUTLAWED
RESTRAINS.
CHAINS ARE USED BUT ONLY
SYMBOLICALLY AND NOT AS
RESTRAINTS AND THE SHRINE
ALLOWED PSYCHIATRISTS TO SET UP
CLINICS INSIDE AND JUST OUTSIDE
THE PREMISES.
THEY ALSO BEGAN TO TRAIN FAITH
HEALERS TO LOOK FOR TELL-TALE
SIGNS OF COMMON MENTAL ILLNESS.
SYMPTOMS LIKE THOSE OF THE
23-YEAR-OLD THROUGH A VERY
DIFFERENT THERAPEUTIC LENS.
>> SOMEBODY HAS PERFORMED BLACK
MAGIC ON HIM.
I CAN TELL THE WAY HE'S SULKING
AND DOWN.
>> BUT AFTER A SESSION OF RITUAL
AND PRAYER, ALI BROUGHT HIM TO
SEE HIS TAG TEAM PARTNER.
>> HE SAYS HE'S BEEN HAVING
PHYSICAL PROBLEMS SO I THOUGHT I
WOULD BRING HIM TO SEE YOU.
>> HE COMPLAINED OF LEG PAIN BUT
AS THE CONVERSATION WENT ON
THERE WAS A LONGER LI LITANY.
>> I DON'T SLEEP BECAUSE THE
CASE COMES.
>> WHO'S THE CASE?
A MAN, HE SAYS COME WITH ME
EVERY DAY.
>> AFTER CLARIFYING THERE WAS NO
REAL THREAT, THE DOCTOR RENEWED
A PRESCRIPTION FOR THE
ANTI-SCHIZOPHRENIA DRUGS.
HIS MOTHER SAID HIS CONDITION
IMPROVED AFTER HE BEGAN TAKING
THEM.
>> HE SLEEPS NOW.
HE NEVER USED TO SLEEP THROUGH
THE NIGHT.
BEFORE, HE USED TO HIT US, BUT
NOW STOPPED DOING THAT.
>> I'M GOING TO GIVE YOU 15
DAYS' MEDICINE.
SEE ME AGAIN AFTER 15 DAYS OR IF
YOU HAVE ANY PROBLEMS.
>> PSYCHIATRIST BUSHAN IS
CAREFUL TO ACKNOWLEDGE HIS
FAITH-BASED PARTNER.
PILLS ARE ROUTINELY BLESSED IN
THE SHRINE'S INNER SANCTUM.
DR. BASHAN SAYS THIS REACHING
OUT IS MOSTLY BUT NOT ALWAYS
RESIPCATED.
>> SOME TELL THE PATIENTS THE
MEDICINES ARE NOT NEEDED OR THEY
CAN STOP TAKING THEM.
>> WE SPENT A LOT OF MONEY AND
TO NO BENEFIT.
>> HIS PARENTS, LABORERS FROM
ABOUT TWO HOURS AWAY, STRUGGLED
FIVE YEARS FOR THEIR SON'S
ILLNESS BEFORE FINALLY GETTING
RESULTS.
>> SO EVERYONE WAS TELLING US TO
GO TO THE DARGA WHERE THEY COULD
TREAT THE PROBLEM OF BLACK MAGIC
SO WE CAME HERE.
THEN THEY TOLD US THEY HAD THIS
MEDICINE PROGRAM AS WELL.
>> I ASKED, IS IT THE MEDICINE
OR THE PRAYER THAT'S WORKING?
>> BOTH ARE WORKING.
>> Reporter: MILAIS IS NOT
PLACED WITH THAT KIND OF
RESPONSE AND SAYS THERE CAN BE
THERAPEUTIC VALUE IN THE
PILGRIMAGE TO THE SHRINE.
>> IT'S A HOLY PLACE, FINDING
SOME KIND OF SOLACE, BRINGING
THEM BACK TO NORMALCY AND IF WE
ARE ABLE TO PROVIDE THEM WITH
MEDICAL INTERVENTION AND PROPER
CARE, COUNSELING, LISTENING, I'M
SURE THEY WILL FEEL VERY GOOD
THEY'RE SOMEPLACE TO TAKE CARE
OF THEMSELVES.
>> THE ALTRUIST HAS MANAGED TO
BRING 16,000 TO TH 16,000 PATIEE
PROGRAM CALLED MEDICINE AND
PRAYER.
IT'S A TINY NUMBER WITH VAST
NEED BUT EXPERTS SAY A PROMISING
PROTOTYPE TO EXPAND PSYCHIATRIC
SERVICES WITHOUT DISRUPTING OR
ANTAGONIZING AGE-OLD BELIEF
SYSTEMS.
>> Woodruff: FRED'S REPORTING IS
A PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNDER-
TOLD STORIES PROJECT AT ST.
MARY'S UNIVERSITY OF MINNESOTA.
>> Ifill: THERE ARE NEW REPORTS
OUT OF YET ANOTHER TECH GIANT,
IN THIS CASE MICROSOFT, TRYING
TO PURCHASE A POPULAR GAMING
COMPANY.
IT'S PART OF AN INDUSTRY AND
MARKET THAT YOU MAY NOT KNOW
ABOUT UNLESS YOU ARE WISE IN THE
WAYS OF X-BOX AND PLAYSTATION.
GAME SALES IN THE U.S. TOPPED
$21 BILLION LAST YEAR THAT'S
DOUBLE THE AMOUNT EARNED AT
MOVIE THEATERS IN NORTH AMERICA.
AND MORE THAN 70 MILLION PEOPLE
WORLDWIDE WATCH GAMES PLAYED AS
E-SPORTS OVER THE WEB OR ON TV.
HARI SREENIVASAN HAS MORE FROM
OUR NEW YORK STUDIOS ABOUT THIS
POTENTIAL DEAL AND THE WIDER
PHENOMENON.
>> Reporter: IN THE HIT GAME
MINECRAFT PLAYERS MANEUVER
THROUGH A LEGO-LIKE LANDSCAPE,
BUILD WHATEVER THEY CAN IMAGINE,
OR TO BATTLE MONSTERS.
AS SEEN IN THIS YOUTUBE VIDEO BY
THE GAME'S SWEDISH CREATOR
MOJANG.
>> YEAH, IT'S VERY POPULAR.
>> Reporter: WITH MORE THAN 50
MILLION COPIES SOLD SINCE 2011,
MINECRAFT HAS EVEN CONTRIBUTED
TO A TREND OF USERS SIMPLY
WATCHING OTHERS PLAY ONLINE.
NOW, IT'S BEING WIDELY REPORTED
THAT MICROSOFT IS IN TALKS TO
BUY MOJANG FOR MORE THAN $2
BILLION.
THE DEAL ISN'T A CERTAINTY, AND
WOULD LIKELY DRAW SOME
CRITICISM.
MARKUS PERSSON, WHO CAME UP WITH
MINECRAFT, HAS STRESSED THE
IMPORTANCE OF SMALLER,
INDEPENDENT DEVELOPERS LIKE
MOJANG.
>> IF YOU GET A GAME FROM A BIG
PUBLISHER, YOU KIND OF EXPECT IT
TO BE SOMETHING DIFFERENT,RE
ON THE OTHER HAND, BECAUSE THE
INDIE SCENE HAS GROWN SO MUCH
AND YOU KIND OF KNOW WHERE THAT
IS, YOU LOOK AT IT WITH
DIFFERENT EYES AND YOU CAN
ACTUALLY EXPLORE NEW GAME IDEAS
AND CONCEPTS AND EVEN STYLES,
WHICH IS REALLY COOL.
>> Reporter: FOR ITS PART,
MICROSOFT HAS A MAJOR INCENTIVE
TO DO THE DEAL.
PLAYERS ALREADY CAN BUY
MINECRAFT ON THE COMPANY'S X-BOX
SYSTEM.
BUT A MERGER COULD SECURE THE
GAME FOR ALL ITS DEVICES,
INCLUDING THE WINDOWS PHONE AND
EXCLUDE THE GAME FROM BEING ON
OTHER PLATFORMS.
THE HIGHLY PROFITABLE GAMING
INDUSTRY HAS ALSO ATTRACTED
OTHER BIG NAMES.
LAST MONTH, ONLINE SHOPPING
GIANT AMAZON SAID IT'S BUYING
TWITCH, A LIVE VIDEO STREAMING
SERVICE FOR GAMERS FOR NEARLY $1
BILLION.
AND EARLIER THIS YEAR, FACEBOOK
BOUGHT VIRTUAL REALITY COMPANY
OCULUS FOR $2 BILLION.
FOR MORE ON WHAT ALL THIS MIGHT
MEAN FOR MICROSOFT AND THE
GAMING WORLD, JOINED BY EDITOR
AND CHIEF OF THE GAMING SITE.
WHAT'S SO SPECIAL?
>> IT'S THE GAME EVERY KID HAS
PLAYED OR LIKE TO PLAY.
THEY LOVE TO DRESS UP AS THE
CHARACTERS IN MINECRAFT.
IT'S NOT JUST A VIDEO GAME.
THINK OF IT AS VIRTUAL LEGGOS.
IT'S A SERIES OF VIRTUAL BRICKS
AND YOU CAN BUILD T
ANYTHING YOU THINK OF.
>> Sreenivasan: IT'S NOT JUST
A FIRST PERSON SHOOTER WHEN
YOU'RE RUNNING AROUND AND
KILLING PEOPLE?
THE GRAPHICS ARE BLOCKY AND NOT
EX TRAVE GABTS.
>> IT'S NOT WHAT YOU WOULD THINK
OF IF YOU THINK OF VIDEO GAMES,
ESPECIALLY IF YOU'RE HORRIFIED
ABOUT VIDEO GAMES AND WORRIED
THEY'RE ALL ABOUT VIOLENCE.
THIS IS A GAME WHERE IT HAS A
MODE WHERE YOU CAN FIGHT
MONSTERS BUT MOST PEOPLE USE IT
AND GET EXCITED ABOUT IT WHERE
THEY CAN PLAY AROUND AND BUILD
ANYTHING THEY CAN THINK OF.
YOU CAN GO ONLINE AND SEE PEOPLE
MAJOR CAST ALSO AND SPACE SHIPS
AND WORKING CALCULATORS, CREATE
CITIES AND THINGS.
>> $2 BILLION, DEVELOPERS HAVE
BEEN APPROACHED BY PREVIOUS
BUYERS AND HAVEN'T SOLD.
WHY NOT?
>> WE'LL SEE IF THE DEAL
ACTUALLY GOES THROUGH BUT IT'S
INTERESTING BECAUSE MOJANG IS A
VERY SMALL STUDIO.
MINECRAFT IS MADE BY ONE GUY,
MARKUS PERSSON, HE'S SENSE
HANDED IT -- SINCE HANDED IT OFF
TO OTHERRINGS IN THE STUDIO AND
IT'S EXPANDED.
HE'S A VERY OPINIONATED GUY AND
SPOKEN ABOUT HIS SUSPENSION OF
WHAT VARIOUS CORPORATIONS ARE
DOING AND HAS WORKED WITH SOME
OF THEM BUT HE'S AN INDEPENDENT
GUY AND YOU WOULDN'T EXPECT HIM
TO SELL.
>> Sreenivasan: WE'VE SEEN THE
OTHER MOVES IN THE INDUSTRY
WHERE YOU'VE SEEN A LITTLE BIT
OF THE TRADITIONAL PLAYERS.
NOW AM SAN IS A BIG -- AMAZON IS
A BIG COMPANY.
>> RIGHT.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT DO YOU
GET OUT OF BUYING TWITCH AND
WHAT DOES IT SAY ABOUT GAMING
OVERALL?
>> THE HEADLINES OF BIG MERGERS
OF TRADITIONAL COMPANIES IS NOT
IT, YOU'RE SEEING AMAZON AND
GOOGLE TRYING TO BUY TWITCH
WHICH IS A SERVICE WE WATCH
PEOPLE BUYING VIDEO GAMES.
YOU SEE Facebook BUYING OCULUS
WHICH IS ABOUT VIRTUAL REALITY.
IT CAN BE ABOUT MEDICINE,
TELECONFERENCING, EDUCATION.
SIMILARLY, IF YOU THINK ABOUT
MINECRAFT, IT'S NOT JUST VIDEO
GAME.
IT'S VIRTUAL BUILDING BLOCKS.
PEOPLE CAN USE IT FOR EDUCATION,
PRODUCTIVITY AND CREATIVITY.
SO WE'RE NOT SEEING JUST AN
INTEREST IN PURELY ACQUIRING A
VIDEO GAME OR VIDEO GAME STUDIO
BUT A TECHNOLOGY THAT CAN BE
APPLIED TO BROADER APPLICATIONS
AS WELL.
>> WHEN DID THIS HAPPEN THAT
IT'S INTERESTING TO WATCH OTHERS
PLAY VIDEO GAMES?
>> I THINK EVERYBODY HAS WATCHED
SOMEBODY PLAY PAC-MAN AND GO
TORE THE HIGH SCORES.
SO THERE'S AN APPEAL TO WATCH
SOMEBODY PERFORM AS WE WATCH
SPORTS.
BUT IF WE'RE TALKING ABOUT
TWITCH, IN PARTICULAR, IT'S ALSO
INTERACTIVE.
PEOPLE TALK ABOUT WHAT'S
HAPPENING IN A CHAT WINDOW.
THAT OFTEN BECOMES ITS SORT OF
AND IN TWITCH
BROADCAST, YOU HAVE PEOPLE
PLAYING THE GAMES, READING THE
COMMENTS AND CHANGING WHAT
THEY'RE DOING.
IT'S AN INTERACTIVE BROADCAST.
>> WHAT ABOUT THE ACQUISITION BY
Facebook OF OCULUS THAT MAKE
THE V.R. HEADGGLES, IS THAT
CHANGING THE FACE OF GAMING?
>> PEOPLE HAVE BEEN TRYING TO
PERFECT VIRTUAL REALITY FOR A
LONG TIME.
IN ANOTHER DECADE OR GENERATION,
THEY FIGURE OUT HOW TO PUT US
INTO A NEW VIRTUAL SPACE.
OCULUS, YOU PUT A HEADSET ON AND
IT LOOKS LIKE YOU'RE IN ANOTHER
WORLD.
VIRTUAL LEGS DON'T BELIEVE WHILE
YOUR REAL LEGS MOVE.
I THINK Facebook SEES IT A WAY
FOR GAMING AND HOW WE INTERACT
WITH EACH OTHER.
I'M GOING TO PUT THE HEAD SETS
ON.
HE STUDIO WITH
YOU.
>> HOW DOES AMAZON OR MICROSOFT
MAKE MONEY FROM SPENDING ON ALL
THESE OTHER PLATFORMS?
>> THERE'S A QUESTION WHETHER OR
NOT OCULUS CAN MAKE THE MONEY
BACK Facebook WILL BE
SPENDING.
MINECRAFT SOLD 16 MILLION COPIES
ALONE ON THE PC AND THE MAC IN
THE FEW YEARS IT'S OUT.
IT'S ON EVERY PLATFORM YOU CAN
THINK OF.
PEOPLE PAY TO PLAY MINECRAFT.
THAT'S A TRADITIONAL WAY OF
MAKING MONEY.
IS MICROSOFT TOO HIGH IN WE'LL
SEE.
BUT IF YOU'RE BUYING VIRTUAL,
YOU CAN DO MORE WITH THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: IS VIDEO GAMES
MORE PROFITABLE?
>> PEOPLE GO BACK AND FORTH.
THE GAMING INDUSTRY LIKES TO
PUFF UP ITS CHEST AND SAY WE
MAKE BETTER MONEY THAN THE BOX
OFFICE BUT DON'T COUNT DVD
SALES.
YOU COULD ARGUE EITHER WAY.
BUT IT'S CLEAR THE GAMING
INDUSTRY IS A HEALTHY GROWING
INDUSTRY THAT'S OPEN TO A MORE
DEVERSE SET OF CREATORS.
WE TALK ABOUT THE BLOCKBUSTERACH
ABOUT THE FACT MORE AND MORE
PEOPLE OF MORE TYPES, MORE MEN
AND WOMEN, MORE PEOPLE OF COLOR,
DIFFERENT SEXUALITIES AND
BACKGROUND, THEY'RE ALWAYS
GETTING TO MAKE GAMES BECAUSE
IT'S EASIER THAN EVER TO MAKE
GAMES AND WE'RE SEEING DIVERSE
CREATIONS.
I DON'T THINK ANY BIG STUDIO
WOULD MINECRAFT, THE GRAPHICS
AREN'T IMPRESSIVE, BUT THE
APPEAL IS GREAT AND THANK
GOODNESS A GUY IN STOCKHOLM WAS
ABLE TO MAKE IT.
>> Sreenivasan: THANK YOU SO
MUCH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
POET RECALLS THE LIFE AND LEGACY
OF HIS CLOSE FRIEND, JOURNALIST
JAMES FOLEY, WHO WAS BEHEADED BY
A MEMBER OF THE ISLAMIC STATE
GROUP IN SYRIA IN AUGUST.
DANIEL JOHNSON IS THE FOUNDING
DIRECTOR OF 826 BOSTON, A
WRITING CENTER FOR DISADVANTAGED
YOUTH.
>> IN 1996 WHEN WE SIGNED UP TO
BECOME TEACHERS TO TEACH FOR
AMERICA AND WE WERE BOTH
ASSIGNED TO TEACH IN PHOENIX,
JIM WAS TEACHING MIDDLE SCHOOL
HISTORY AND I WAS TEACHING FIFTH
AND SIXTH GRADE BILINGUAL
STUDENTS, SO WE TRAINED
TOGETHER, WE TAUGHT TOGETHER FOR
THREE YEARS.
WE REALLY BECAME FAST FRIENDS
AND CONNECTED AROUND LITERATURE
AND A DEEP LOVE OF BOOKS.
I HAD SOME OF THE GREATEST
ADVENTURES OF MY LIFE WITH JIM,
TRAVELING TO CUBA IN 1999 TO,
YOU KNOW, TREKKING THROUGH THE
DESERT WHEN WE LIVED IN ARIZONA,
WENT THROUGH THE GRAND CANYON IN
THE WINTER.
SO I THINK THERE'S A THIRST FOR
ADVENTURE, THIS REAL CURIOSITY.
WHEN HE WENT TO LIBYA, HE WAS
TAKEN CAPTIVE AND HELD BY
GADHAFI'S FORCES FOR 44 DAYS,
AND IT WAS AN INCREDIBLY TRYING
TIME FOR HIS FAMILY, FOR HIS
FRIENDS.
WHEN HE WAS CAPTURED, YOU KNOW,
THE SECOND TIME IN SYRIA, I
WROTE A POEM OVER THE COURSE OF
A YEAR OR SO AND FINISHED IT IN
THE SPRING.
WE MADE A PACT LONG AGO TO
BECOME WRITERS, AND THAT REALLY
FELT TO ME LIKE ONE OF THE MOST
DIRECT WAYS TO COMMUNICATE WITH
HIM.
IN THE ABSENCE OF SPARROWS,
ROCKETS CONCUSS, GUNS RATTLE
OFF, DOGS IN THE SQUARE FEED ON
DEAD HORSES.
I DON'T KNOW, JIM, WHERE YOU
ARE.
IT'S NIGHT, COLD AND BRUISED
WHERE YOU ARE, PLASTIC TWINE
BINDS YOUR HANDS.
YOU WAIT AND PRAY.
PRAY AND WAIT.
BUT THIS IS WHERE THE PICTURE
GOES GREY.
WE DON'T KNOW, JIM, WHERE YOU
ARE.
ONE OF THE LINES OF THE POEM IS
WHEN DID YOU LAST SEE BIRDS,
AND, YOU KNOW, DURING HIS
CAPTIVITY, I MEAN, HE WAS CUT
OFF A DA FROM HIS BOOKS, HIS FA,
FRIENDS, THINGS HE LOVED.
DON'T GET ME WRONG, WE EXPECT
YOU BACK, SKINNY, COFFEE EYES,
SUNKEN BY ALIVE.
YOU'VE ALWAYS COME BACK, FROM
IRAQ, SYRIA, AFGHANISTAN, EVEN
LIBYA AFTER GADHAFI'S FORCES
CAPTURED AND HELD YOU FOR 44
DAYS.
YOU TRACKED TIME, SCRATCHING
MARKS WITH YOUR ZIPPER ON PRISON
WALLS, SCRAWLING NOTES ON
CIGARETTE BOXES, RECITING THE
QUR'AN WITH OTHER PRISONERS.
IN THE ABSENCE OF SPARROWS, THE
FRONT PAGE STORY SAYS YOU HAVE
BEEN MISSING SINCE NOVEMBER 22,
2012.
EVERYTHING ELSE, IT DOESN'T SAY.
IN THE ABSENCE OF SPARROWS, YOU
SIMPLY WANDERED OFF PAST THE SO
SONOCO, POCKETS STUFFED, THE
APARTMENT IS OPEN STILL.
THE LAST LINE OF THE POEM IS THE
APARTMENT A OPEN STILL AND, YONU
KNOW, IT DOESN'T END.
THERE'S A DASH.
IT'S A POEM THAT -- WHEN I
STPPED WORKING ON IT, IT'S
INTENTIONALLY UNFINISHED BECAUSE
WE WERE WAITING FOR JIM'S
RETURN.
I PLAN TO CONTINUE WRITING ABOUT
JIM AND ABOUT HIS PLIGHT BECAUSE
WRITING FOR ME IS ONE OF THE
WAYS I MAKE SENSE OF THE WORLD.
I LOOK AT AUGUST 19th -- I
ACTUALLY WROTE THAT MORNING A
POEM ENTITLED OPEN LETTER, SAYS
JAMES FOLEY IN SYRIA.
AND WE GOT THE NEWS THAT DAY JIM
HAD BEEN KILLED.
>> Ifill: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY,
PRESIDENT OBAMA PREPARED TO
SPEAK TO THE NATION ON
CONFRONTING THE ISLAMIC STATE
GROUP.
IN EXCERPTS RELEASED BY THE
WHITE HOUSE, HE PLEDGED U.S. AIR
STRIKES WILL TARGET THE
MILITANTS WHEREVER THEY EXIST.
HE ALSO CALLED FOR A BROAD
COALITION.
THE ASSOCIATED PRESS REPORTED
THE VIDEO OF RAY RICE PUNCHING
HIS THEN-FIANCE WAS SENT TO AN
N.F.L. EXECUTIVE FIVE MONTHS
AGO.
LEAGUE OFFICIALS HAVE SAID THEY
FIRST SAW THE VIDEO MONDAY.
THE BILL AND MELINDA GATES
FOUNDATION ANNOUNCED INCREASE
SPENDING TO FIGHT EBOLA TO THE
TOTAL OF $50 MILLION.
>> Woodruff: ON THE NEWSHOUR
ONLINE RIGHT NOW, MOST STATES
ALREADY BAN TEXTING WHILE
DRIVING, BUT A LONG ISLAND
DISTRICT ATTORNEY WANTS TO TAKE
IT A STEP FURTHER WITH KILL
SWITCHES THAT BLOCK DRIVERS FROM
TEXTING WHILE THEY'RE ON THE
ROAD.
READ MORE ABOUT THIS PROPOSED
PLAN, ON THE RUNDOWN.
AND HOW CAN SOCIAL MEDIA HELP
DOCTORS BATTLE THE OBESITY
EPIDEMIC?
A NEW STUDY SUGGESTS THAT IT
COULD BE A COST-EFFECTIVE METHOD
OF TREATING A GROWING NUMBER OF
PATIENTS.
THAT'S ON OUR HEALTH PAGE.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
>> Ifill: AND LATER TONIGHT ON
MOST PBS STATIONS, NOVA EXPLORES
THE SCIENCE OF IMMUNIZATION.
THE DOCUMENTARY, "VACCINES:
CALLING THE SHOTS" WAS PRODUCED
BY TANGLED BANK STUDIOS, A FILM
PRODUCTION COMPANY OF THE HOWARD
HUGHES MEDICAL INSTITUTE, WHICH
IS ALSO AN UNDERWRITER OF THE
NEWSHOUR.
THERE'S BEEN GROWING CONCERN
ABOUT THE NUMBER OF PARENTS
OPTING OUT OF VACCINATIONS FOR
THEIR CHILDREN.
THIS EXCERPT LAYS OUT THE RISKS
IT POSES TO WHAT'S KNOWN AS HERD
IMMUNITY.
>> THE 2013 MEASLES OUTBREAK IN
NEW YORK HIT HARD AND FAST, BUT
REMAINED WITHIN THE BROOKLYN
AREA.
WHY DIDN'T IT SPREAD TO THE
OTHER 8 MILLION PEOPLE IN THE
CITY?
THE VIRUS WAS IN CIRCULATION,
EVEN THOUGH IT OFTEN WASN'T
OBVIOUS.
AND IT WAS BEING CARRIED BY
PEOPLE WHO OFTEN HAD NO IDEA
THEY WERE INPEC INFECTED.E VASTE
WHO CAME INTO CONTACT WITH THE
VIRUS HAD PROTECTION.
THEY WERE VACCINATED.
>> THERE'S TWO THINGS THAT
MATTER FOR WHETHER OR NOT I'M
GOING TO GET SICK.
ONE IS, IF I BUMP INTO SOMEBODY
WHO HAS THE DISEASE, AM I
PROTECTED AGAINST IT OR NOT?
BUT THE OTHER PIECE, AND THE
MORE IMPORTANT PIECE, IS THE
CHANCE I WOULD BUMP INTO
SOMEBODY IN THE FIRST PLACE WHO
HAS THIS DISEASE.
AND YOU CAN THINK OF THIS AS
THESE SORT OF CONCENTRIC CIRCLES
OF PEOPLE, AND THE LESS THE
DISEASE EXISTS IN MY CIRCLE OR
THE NEXT CIRCLE OR THE NEXT
CIRCLE, THE SAFER I AM.
>> IT'S KNOWN AS HERD IMMUNITY,
AND IT PROTECTS EVERYONE,
INCLUDING YOUNG BABIES AND
PEOPLE WHO CAN'T BE VACCINATED
FOR MEDICAL REASONS.
AND IN NEW YORK, IT WORKED.
>> IF WE DIDN'T HAVE THE HIGH
VACCINATION LEVEL WE DO IN
NEW YORK CITY AND EVEN IN THIS
COMMUNITY, I CAN PROMISE YOU WE
WOULD HAVE HAD HUNDREDS IF NOT
THOUSANDS OF CASES.
>> BUT THIS PROTECTION IS
FRAGILE.
FOR HIGHLY INFECTIOUS DISEASES
LIKE MEASLES, WE NEED 95% OF THE
COMMUNITY VACCINATED FOR HERD
IMMUNITY TO HOLD.
IF THE RATE DROPS EVEN A FEW
PERCENT, HERD IMMUNITY CAN
COLLAPSE.
>> Ifill: YOU CAN WATCH NOVA'S
VACCINES: CALLING THE SHOTS"
TONIGHT ON MOST PBS STATIONS.
FOLLOWING THE PRESIDENT'S
ADDRESS TO THE NATION.
AND WE'LL HAVE LIVE COVERAGE OF
THAT SPEECH IN A NEWSHOUR
SPECIAL REPORT.
INCLUDING ANALYSIS BY MARK
SHIELDS AND DAVID BROOKS.
JOIN US AT 9 P.M. EASTERN.
I'M GWEN IFILL.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ON-LINE AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
FOR ALL OF US HERE AT THE PBS
NEWSHOUR, THANK YOU AND GOOD
NIGHT.